README.md, before:

# Barman Single-Server Streaming Configuration

This tutorial provides a quick walk-through of setting up a backup and recovery scenario using a Barman server and a PostgreSQL server. It covers:

1. Configuring the database server to allow Barman to collect data via streaming replication
2. Installing Barman on an Ubuntu system
3. Configuring Barman for streaming replication
4. Validating a Barman configuration
5. Running a full backup
6. Restoring a full backup

## Running these scenarios

### Step 01: Database Server Configuration

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step01-db-setup/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it -u postgres pg /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in [step01-db-setup/README.md](step01-db-setup/README.md)

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step01-db-setup/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers before starting the next step.

### Step 02: Installing and Configuring Barman

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step02-backup-setup/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it backup /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in [step02-backup-setup/README.md](step02-backup-setup/README.md)

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step02-backup-setup/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers before starting the next step.

### Step 03: Running Backups With Barman

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step03-backup/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it -u barman backup /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in [step03-backup/README.md](step03-backup/README.md)

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step03-backup/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers before starting the next step.

### Step 04: Restoring a Backup With Barman

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step04-restore/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it -u barman backup /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in [step04-restore/README.md](step04-restore/README.md)

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step04-restore/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers.
    
## Building the images

The build system is quite simplistic: two scripts under ./build 

1. `build/build-images.sh` will build and tag the 8 images used by the Compose files under step01-step04. Changes can then be tested locally.
2. `build/push-images.sh` will push these images up to Github. 

Normally you shouldn't have to run the push script - once you've built and verified the images locally, check in and push your changes and Github Actions will rebuild and push the new images.

If changes are made to the scenario steps that affect the intermediate backups in steps #2 or #3, you'll need to create new archives of the `pg` backup directory at the conclusion of BOTH steps #2 and #3. 

```shell
# from within container
tar cvfz pg.tar.gz -C ~ pg
```

Then copy that archive into the build directory for the next steps (`build/step03/backup/barman` and `build/step04/backup/barman` respectively).

```shell
# from host (after step #2 but before cleanup)
docker cp backup:/var/lib/barman/pg.tar.gz build/step03/backup/barman
```

Commit message:

Move these to a branch for clean-up work Revert "Add rest of steps to build" Revert "Use correct release name" Revert "Automatic build system, move images to github, update versions"
This reverts commits 7ba62a7f0fe9320b18be90073ac7de7c4446eec8, 68b853e784d2e63cd217dd8d68a4988b533d0af7, 29eb74c2a66a1987a9be77aabbd3d4342c91e82d.

README.md, after:

# Barman Single-Server Streaming Configuration

This tutorial provides a quick walk-through of setting up a backup and recovery scenario using a Barman server and a PostgreSQL server. It covers:

1. Configuring the database server to allow Barman to collect data via streaming replication
2. Installing Barman on an Ubuntu system
3. Configuring Barman for streaming replication
4. Validating a Barman configuration
5. Running a full backup
6. Restoring a full backup

## Running these scenarios

### Step 01: Database Server Configuration

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step01-db-setup/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it -u postgres pg /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in step01-db-setup/README.md

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step01-db-setup/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers before starting the next step.

### Step 02: Installing and Configuring Barman

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step02-backup-setup/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it backup /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in step02-backup-setup/README.md

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step02-backup-setup/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers before starting the next step.

### Step 03: Running Backups With Barman

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step03-backup/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it -u barman backup /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in step03-backup/README.md

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step03-backup/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers before starting the next step.

### Step 04: Restoring a Backup With Barman

1. Run: 

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step04-restore/docker-compose.yaml up -d
    docker exec -it -u barman backup /bin/bash
    ```

2. Follow the instructions in step04-restore/README.md

3. Run:

    ```shell
    docker-compose -f step04-restore/docker-compose.yaml down
    ```

    ...to clean up the containers.
    
## Building the images

The build system is quite simplistic: two scripts under ./build 

1. `build/build-images.sh` will build and tag the 8 images used by the Compose files under step01-step04. Changes can then be tested locally.
2. `build/push-images.sh` will push these images up to Docker Hub. Note that this currently requires you to be... Me. 

If changes are made to the scenario steps that affect the intermediate backups in steps #2 or #3, you'll need to create new archives of the `pg` backup directory at the conclusion of BOTH steps #2 and #3. 

```shell
tar cvfz pg.tar.gz -C ~ pg
```

Then copy that archive into the build directory for the next steps (`build/step03/backup/barman` and `build/step04/backup/barman` respectively).

I still need to take time to automate this a bit more :)
